# Causal Inference Project


## Description

Causal Inference Question: Does having a higher loyalty card status
(Star \> Nova \> Aurora) cause an increase in CLV?

Context: I want to study if having a higher loyalty card status for an
airline causes an increase in CLV. CLV is Customer Lifetime Value. It is
computed as the sum of all revenues (or invoices) generated by the
customer for their flight bookings over their entire membership period.
Basically, it’s how much total revenue a specific customer is expected
to generate. The Star loyalty card is the highest, Nova is the next
highest, and Aurora is third highest. In the data, only these 3
loyalties are listed.

The outcome would be positive and continuous values because it’s how
much revenue is expected to be made under the CLV. Other predictor
variables that could influence CLV is salary, education level, marital
status, total flights, and enrollment year/month. Other variables that
could influence our outcome could be country of residence, gender,
distance traveled, points redeemed, and dollar cost of points redeemed.

My story is that I believe that having a loyalty card increases the
revenue you will make for the airline.

https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/agungpambudi/airline-loyalty-campaign-program-impact-on-flights/data

To see my project report on Github Pages: https://rebeccahull.github.io/causal_inference/

## Project Organization

- `/code` Scripts with prefixes (e.g., `01_import-data.py`,
  `02_clean-data.py`) and functions in `/code/src`.
- `/data` Simulated and real data, the latter not pushed.
- `/figures` PNG images and plots.
- `/output` Output from model runs, not pushed.
- `/presentations` Presentation slides.
- `/private` A catch-all folder for miscellaneous files, not pushed.
- `/writing` Reports, posts, and case studies.
- `/.venv` Hidden project library, not pushed.
- `.gitignore` Hidden Git instructions file.
- `.python-version` Hidden Python version for the reproducible
  environment.
- `requirements.txt` Information on the reproducible environment.

## Reproducible Environment

After cloning this repository, go to the project’s terminal in Positron
and run `python -m venv .venv` to create the `/.venv` project library,
followed by `pip install -r requirements.txt` to install the specified
library versions.

Whenever you install new libraries or decide to update the versions of
libraries you use, run `pip freeze > requirements.txt` to update
`requirements.txt`.

For more details on using GitHub, Quarto, etc. see [ASC
Training](https://github.com/marcdotson/asc-training).
